.Dd May 27, 2013
.Dt esrever 1
.Sh NAME
.Nm esrever
.Nd reverse strings
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl f | -file Ar file
.br
.Op Fl l | -line Ar file
.br
.Op Fl v | -version
.br
.Op Fl h | -help
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a Unicode-aware string reverser written in JavaScript. It's similar to
.Xr rev 1
, only better;
.Nm
allows you to easily reverse any string of Unicode symbols, while handling combining marks and astral symbols just fine.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -ohang -offset
.It Sy "-v, --version"
Print esrever's version.
.It Sy "-h, --help"
Show the help screen.
.It Sy "-f, --file <file>"
Print the reversed contents of the given file. Line order is reversed, too.
.It Sy "-l, --lines <file>"
Print the reversed contents of the given file. Line order is not reversed.
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
The
.Nm esrever
utility exits with one of the following values:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width flag -compact
.It Li 0
.Nm
successfully reversed the input and printed the result.
.It Li 1
.Nm
wasn't instructed to reverse any input (for example, the
.Ar --help
flag was set); or, an error occurred.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bl -ohang -offset
.It Sy "esrever 'Hello world!'"
Print the reversed version of the given string.
.It Sy "esrever -f foo.txt"
Read the file
.Ar foo.txt
and print its reversed contents, reversing line order as well.
.It Sy "esrever -l foo.txt"
Read the file
.Ar foo.txt
and print its reversed contents, without reversing line order. This is similar to what
.Xr rev 1
does.
.It Sy echo\ 'Lorem\ ipsum'\ |\ esrever
Print the reversed version of the string that gets piped in.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr rev 1
.Sh BUGS
esrever's bug tracker is located at <https://github.com/mathiasbynens/esrever/issues>.
.Sh AUTHOR
Mathias Bynens <https://mathiasbynens.be/>
.Sh WWW
<https://mths.be/esrever>
